{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang12300{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\f0\fs22\lang9 Capstone Project - The Battle of\par
Neighborhoods\par
Report\par
\par
\par
1. Introduction\par
1.1 Background\par
The average American moves about eleven times in their lifetime. This brings us to the\par
question: Do people move until they find a place to settle down where they truly feel happy,\par
or do our wants and needs change over time, prompting us to eventually leave a town we\par
once called home for a new area that will bring us satisfaction? Or, do we too often move to\par
a new area without knowing exactly what we\rquote re getting into, forcing us to turn tail and run at\par
the first sign of discomfort?\par
To minimize the chances of this happening, we should always do proper research when\par
planning our next move in life. Consider the following factors when picking a new place to\par
live so you don\rquote t end up wasting your valuable time and money making a move you\rquote ll end\par
up regretting. Safety is a top concern when moving to a new area. If you don\rquote t feel safe in\par
your own home, you\rquote re not going to be able to enjoy living there.\par
\par
\par
1.2 Problem\par
The crime statistics dataset of London found on Kaggle has crimes in each Boroughs of\par
London from 2008 to 2016. The year 2016 being the latest we will be considering the data\par
of that year which is actually old information as of now. The crime rates in each borough\par
may have changed over time.\par
This project aims to select the safest borough in London based on the total crimes, explore\par
the neighborhoods of that borough to find the 10 most common venues in each\par
neighborhood and finally cluster the neighborhoods using k-mean clustering.\par
\par
\par
1.3 Interest\par
Expats who are considering to relocate to London will be interested to identify the safest\par
borough in London and explore its neighborhoods and common venues around each\par
neighborhood.\par
\par
\par
2. Data Acquisition and Cleaning\par
2.1 Data Acquisition\par
The data acquired for this project is a combination of data from three sources. The first data\par
source of the project uses a London crime data that shows the crime per borough in\par
London. The dataset contains the following columns:\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  lsoa_code: code for Lower Super Output Area in Greater London.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  borough: Common name for London borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  major_category: High level categorization of crime\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  minor_category: Low level categorization of crime within major category.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  value: monthly reported count of categorical crime in given borough\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  year: Year of reported counts, 2008-2016\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  month: Month of reported counts, 1-12\par
The second source of data is scraped from a wikipedia page that contains the list of London\par
boroughs. This page contains additional information about the boroughs, the following are\par
the columns:\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Borough: The names of the 33 London boroughs.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Inner: Categorizing the borough as an Inner London borough or an Outer London\par
Borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Status: Categorizing the borough as Royal, City or other borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Local authority: The local authority assigned to the borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Political control: The political party that control the borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Headquarters: Headquarters of the Boroughs.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Area (sq mi): Area of the borough in square miles.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Population (2013 est)[1]: The population in the borough recorded during the year\par
2013.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Co-ordinates: The latitude and longitude of the boroughs.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Nr. in map: The number assigned to each borough to represent visually on a map.\par
The third data source is the list of Neighborhoods in the Royal Borough of Kingston upon\par
Thames as found on a wikipedia page. This dataset is created from scratch using the list of\par
neighborhood available on the site, the following are columns:\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Neighborhood: Name of the neighborhood in the Borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Borough: Name of the Borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Latitude: Latitude of the Borough.\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Longitude: Longitude of the Borough.\par
\par
\par
2.2 Data Cleaning\par
The data preparation for each of the three sources of data is done separately. From the\par
London crime data, the crimes during the most recent year (2016) are only selected. The\par
major categories of crime are pivoted to get the total crimes per the boroughs for each\par
major category (see fig 2.1).\par
Fig 2.1 London crime data after preprocessing\par
The second data is scraped from a wikipedia page using the Beautiful Soup library in\par
python. Using this library we can extract the data in the tabular format as shown in the\par
website. After the web scraping, string manipulation is required to get the names of the\par
boroughs in the correct form (see fig 2.2). This is important because we will be merging the\par
two datasets together using the Borough names.\par
Fig 2.2 List of London Boroughs\par
The two datasets are merged on the Borough names to form a new dataset that combines\par
the necessary information in one dataset (see fig 2.3). The purpose of this dataset is to\par
visualize the crime rates in each borough and identify the borough with the least crimes\par
recorded during the year 2016.\par
Fig 2.3 London Borough Crime\par
After visualizing the crime in each borough we can find the borough with the lowest crime\par
rate and hence tag that borough as the safest borough. The third source of data is acquired\par
from the list of neighborhoods in the safest borough on wikipedia. This dataset is created\par
from scratch, the pandas data frame is created with the names of the neighborhoods and\par
the name of the borough with the latitude and longitude left blank (see fig 2.4).\par
Fig 2.4 Neighborhoods of the safest borough\par
The coordinates of the neighborhoods is be obtained using Google Maps API geocoding\par
to get the final dataset (See Fig 2.5).\par
Fig 2.5 Neighborhoods of the safest borough\par
The new dataset is used to generate the 10 most common venues for each neighborhood\par
using the Foursquare API, finally using k means clustering algorithm to cluster similar\par
neighborhoods together.\par
\par
\par
3. Methodology\par
3.1 Exploratory Data Analysis\par
3.1.1 Statistical summary of crimes\par
The describe function in python is used to get statistics of the London crime data, this\par
returns the mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, 1st quartile (25%), 2nd quartile\par
(50%), and the 3rd quartile (75%) for each of the major categories of crime (See fig 3.1.1).\par
Fig 3.1.1 Statistical description of the London crimes\par
The count for each of the major categories of crime returns the value 33 which is the\par
number of London boroughs. \lquote Theft and Handling\rquote  is the highest reported crime during the\par
year 2016 followed by \lquote Violence against the person\rquote , \lquote Criminal damage\rquote . The lowest\par
recorded crimes are \rquote Drugs\rquote , \lquote Robbery\rquote  and \lquote Other Notifiable offenses\rquote .\par
3.1.2 Boroughs with the highest crime rates\par
Comparing five boroughs with the highest crime rate during the year 2016 it is evident that\par
Westminster has the highest crimes recorded followed by Lambeth, Southwark, Newham\par
and Tower Hamlets. Westminster has a significantly higher crime rate than the other 4\par
boroughs (see fig 3.1.2).\par
Fig 3.1.2 Boroughs with the highest crime rates\par
3.1.3 Boroughs with the lowest crime rates\par
Comparing five boroughs with the lowest crime rate during the year 2016, City of London\par
has the lowest recorded crimes followed by Kingston upon Thames, Sutton, Richmond\par
upon Thames and Merton (see fig 3.1.3).\par
Fig 3.1.3 Boroughs with the lowest crime rates\par
City of London has a significantly lower crime rate because it i is the 33rd principal division\par
of Greater London but it is not a London borough. It has an area of 1.12 square miles and a\par
population of 7000 as of 2013 which suggests that it is a small area (see fig 3.1.3.1). Hence\par
we will consider the next borough with the lowest crime rate as the safest borough in\par
London which is Kingston upon Thames.\par
Fig 3.1.3.1 City of London\par
3.1.4 Neighborhoods in Kingston upon Thames\par
There are 15 neighborhoods in the royal borough of Kingston upon Thames, they are\par
visualised on a map using folium on python (see fig 3.1.4).\par
Fig 3.1.4 Neighborhoods in Kingston upon Thames\par
\par
\par
3.2 Modelling\par
Using the final dataset containing the neighborhoods in Kingston upon Thames along with\par
the latitude and longitude, we can find all the venues within a 500 meter radius of each\par
neighborhood by connecting to the Foursquare API. This returns a json file containing all\par
the venues in each neighborhood which is converted to a pandas dataframe. This data\par
frame contains all the venues along with their coordinates and category (see fig 3.2.1).\par
Fig 3.2.1 Venue details of each Neighborhood\par
One hot encoding is done on the venues data. (One hot encoding is a process by which\par
categorical variables are converted into a form that could be provided to ML algorithms to\par
do a better job in prediction). The Venues data is then grouped by the Neighborhood and\par
the mean of the venues are calculated, finally the 10 common venues are calculated for\par
each of the neighborhoods.\par
To help people find similar neighborhoods in the safest borough we will be clustering similar\par
neighborhoods using K - means clustering which is a form of unsupervised machine\par
learning algorithm that clusters data based on predefined cluster size. We will use a cluster\par
size of 5 for this project that will cluster the 15 neighborhoods into 5 clusters. The reason to\par
conduct a K- means clustering is to cluster neighborhoods with similar venues together so\par
that people can shortlist the area of their interests based on the venues/amenities around\par
each neighborhood.\par
\par
\par
4. Results\par
After running the K-means clustering we can access each cluster created to see which\par
neighborhoods were assigned to each of the five clusters. Looking into the neighborhoods\par
in the first cluster (see fig 4.1)\par
Fig 4.1 Cluster 1\par
The cluster one is the biggest cluster with 9 of the 15 neighborhoods in the borough\par
Kingston upon Thames. Upon closely examining these neighborhoods we can see that the\par
most common venues in these neighborhoods are Restaurants, Pubs, Cafe, Supermarkets,\par
and stores.\par
Looking into the neighborhoods in the second, third and fifth clusters, we can see these\par
clusters have only one neighborhood in each. This is because of the unique venues in each\par
of the neighborhoods, hence they couldn't be clustered into similar neighborhoods (see\par
figures 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4).\par
Fig 4.2 Cluster 2\par
The second cluster has one neighborhood which consists of Venues such as Restaurants,\par
Golf courses, and wine shops.\par
Fig 4.3 Cluster 3\par
The third cluster has one neighborhood which consists of Venues such as Train stations,\par
Restaurants, and Furniture shops.\par
Fig 4.4 Cluster 5\par
The fifth cluster has one neighborhood which consists of Venues such as Grocery shops,\par
Bars, Restaurants, Furniture shops, and Department stores. We will look into the\par
neighbourhoods in the fourth cluster (see fig 4.5).\par
Fig 4.5 Cluster 4\par
The fourth cluster has two neighborhoods in it, these neighborhoods have common venues\par
such as Parks, Gym/Fitness centers, Bus Stops, Restaurants, Electronics Stores and\par
Soccer fields etc.\par
Visualising the clustered neighborhoods on a map using the folium library (see fig 4.6).\par
Fig 4.6 Clustered neighborhoods in the Borough of Kingston upon Thames\par
Each cluster is color coded for the ease of presentation, we can see that majority of the\par
neighborhood falls in the red cluster which is the first cluster. Three neighborhoods have\par
their own cluster (Blue, Purple and Yellow), these are clusters two three and five. The\par
green cluster consists of two neighborhoods which is the 4th cluster.\par
\par
\par
5. Discussion\par
The aim of this project is to help people who want to relocate to the safest borough in\par
London, expats can chose the neighborhoods to which they want to relocate based on the\par
most common venues in it. For example if a person is looking for a neighborhood with good\par
connectivity and public transportation we can see that Clusters 3 and 4 have Train stations\par
and Bus stops as the most common venues. If a person is looking for a neighborhood with\par
stores and restaurants in a close proximity then the neighborhoods in the first cluster is\par
suitable. For a family I feel that the neighborhoods in Cluster 4 are more suitable dues to\par
the common venues in that cluster, these neighborhoods have common venues such as\par
Parks, Gym/Fitness centers, Bus Stops, Restaurants, Electronics Stores and Soccer fields\par
which is ideal for a family. The choices of neighborhoods may vary from person to person.\par
\par
\par
6.Conclusion\par
This project helps a person get a better understanding of the neighborhoods with respect to\par
the most common venues in that neighborhood. It is always helpful to make use of\par
technology to stay one step ahead i.e. finding out more about places before moving into a\par
neighborhood. We have just taken safety as a primary concern to shortlist the safest\par
borough of London. The future of this project includes taking other factors such as cost of\par
living in the areas into consideration to shortlist the borough, such as filtering areas based\par
on a predefined budget.\par
}
 